TELEPHONE_USER: Hello! My name is Jacob Wirral, and this is the working interview for Ih 2.
TELEPHONE_USER: Would you like to
TELEPHONE_USER: introduce who you are? And our relationship.
Valerie Werle: Okay, I am Valerie Worrell, and I am Jacob World's mom.
Valerie Werle: Alright.
TELEPHONE_USER: Get started with some questions
TELEPHONE_USER: so
TELEPHONE_USER: could you describe your job?
TELEPHONE_USER: What you do?
TELEPHONE_USER: How long your typical work day is, and
TELEPHONE_USER: 5
TELEPHONE_USER: you work at home like? Is it hybrid
TELEPHONE_USER: at a site.
Valerie Werle: Sure
Valerie Werle: my job is
Valerie Werle: I'm officially called a radiologic technologist.
Valerie Werle: I specialize in cat scan.
Valerie Werle: my, I do not work in the home I have to work outside the home. Obviously to do. You need
Valerie Werle: devices that
Valerie Werle: produce radiation. So they're usually in the hospital or a clinic
Valerie Werle: typical work. Day is
Valerie Werle: for me is usually an 8 h shift.
Valerie Werle: which can be a day shift
Valerie Werle: 7 to 3, 8 to 4, 30
Valerie Werle: for a second shift, 3 to 1130,
Valerie Werle: or a night. Shift. 11 PM. To 7 Am.
Valerie Werle: Some of us not necessarily read me, but some of my coworkers work. 12 h shifts.
Valerie Werle: we work Monday through Friday weekends, holidays.
Valerie Werle: The hospital 24, 7.
Valerie Werle: Okay.
TELEPHONE_USER: Oops.
TELEPHONE_USER: Question 2.
TELEPHONE_USER: What training and or education did you receive to perform your job?
TELEPHONE_USER: Do you feel that your training was sufficient?
TELEPHONE_USER: And what surprises came up
TELEPHONE_USER: like through education or training that was never addressed.
Valerie Werle: Okay.
Valerie Werle: when I went to school
Valerie Werle: for this, I there were different ways. We could do it. You could go and just
Valerie Werle: take a
Valerie Werle: course through a hospital
Valerie Werle: and basically get trained on the job.
Valerie Werle: And then you were allowed to sit for your boards.
Valerie Werle: But you have to pass boards to be a registered radiologic technologist.
Valerie Werle: I decided to get an associate's degree.
Valerie Werle: So I went to college.
Valerie Werle: actually, for 3 years, because, so many people were going into this field at the time that I had to wait a year on a waiting list to get in
Valerie Werle: So when I finally got in I got my associates degree.
Valerie Werle: I
Valerie Werle: set for my boards and then began working.
Valerie Werle: some people get a bachelor's degree in this.
Valerie Werle: Usually you only do that if you're gonna move up into management, though.
Valerie Werle: nowadays you have to.
Valerie Werle: you have to go through certain courses. You can't just learn on the job. Like, we used to
Valerie Werle: became certified in cat scan by taking another board.
Valerie Werle: which that was learned on the job also. Nowadays you can't really do that like you did.
Valerie Werle: Now you have to take courses through accredited programs.
Valerie Werle: But
Valerie Werle: I pretty much
Valerie Werle: felt
Valerie Werle: somewhat ready for my job when I was kind of set free from my program where I learned how to do this.
Valerie Werle: But
Valerie Werle: healthcare and taking care of people is
Valerie Werle: you can't really plan for everything that's gonna happen.
Valerie Werle: So every
Valerie Werle: learning something new and
Valerie Werle: you kind of don't know what you don't know until you're in that situation
Valerie Werle: learning it
Valerie Werle: something that it was. So.
Valerie Werle: Yeah, I wasn't really prepared for was
Valerie Werle: probably how to deal with things emotionally that I saw that were
Valerie Werle: terrible.
Valerie Werle: some of the terrible
Valerie Werle: and like with child abuse.
Valerie Werle: we would have to scan, and X-ray
Valerie Werle: children that were abused. That was really hard to know how to deal with that.
Valerie Werle: I remember one time
Valerie Werle: with a 16 year old that
Valerie Werle: was basically brain dead, because he fell out of back the jeep.
Valerie Werle: and I will.
Valerie Werle: mother. And to see him she just was besides herself crying, and
Valerie Werle: they had decided to donate his body, and
Valerie Werle: we would have to take X-rays every 2 h on him.
Valerie Werle: Make sure the lungs were okay
Valerie Werle: and that was difficult, because
Valerie Werle: just looking at him, knowing he was gonna die. And what was gonna happen to him. Things like that are
Valerie Werle: we're hard to deal with.
Valerie Werle: and nobody
Valerie Werle: for that.
Valerie Werle: So that's probably like the hardest stuff.
TELEPHONE_USER: Well, I guess that kind of leads into our next next question.
TELEPHONE_USER: Do you like your job? Why or why not?
Valerie Werle: Nick.
Valerie Werle: Yeah. Oh, go ahead. Sorry.
TELEPHONE_USER: I was just gonna say, if if you didn't do this, what else would you?
TELEPHONE_USER: what do you think it would do.
Valerie Werle: Okay? So I do like my job. Every day is different. Every hour is different.
Valerie Werle: It's not mundane
Valerie Werle: at all, because you're dealing with humans
Valerie Werle: and
Valerie Werle: when you're working alongside an emergency room, you never know what you're gonna get.
Valerie Werle: I do like it. Sometimes it can be a lot. We're very, very busy
Valerie Werle: and trying to stay up on
Valerie Werle: all the patience and getting the work done can be difficult, and that can be stressful when we're short staffed.
Valerie Werle: I free.
Valerie Werle: You ask me.
TELEPHONE_USER: It's so.
TELEPHONE_USER: So if you didn't do this, what would you
TELEPHONE_USER: doing.
Valerie Werle: So if I didn't do this.
Valerie Werle: that's a tough question.
Valerie Werle: Well.
Valerie Werle: for one.
Valerie Werle: I wanted to be a stay at home, mom.
Valerie Werle: That was what I really wanted for my kind of career, if you wanna call it
Valerie Werle: that's what I wanted to do more than anything. But that's not technically a career job. So
Valerie Werle: that's why I went with the account.
Valerie Werle: if I wasn't doing this
Valerie Werle: and my dream job would probably be teaching cat scan
Valerie Werle: if I could.
Valerie Werle: A long time.
Valerie Werle: but nowadays you have to have a master's degree to do that.
Valerie Werle: Stop
Valerie Werle: made it difficult to, you know. Go back into school to do that
Valerie Werle: book.
TELEPHONE_USER: But what's up?
TELEPHONE_USER: Let's move on to the next question.
TELEPHONE_USER: so oh, you'll like this one. Do you feel that your pay is adequate for the demands of your job.
TELEPHONE_USER: Why why not.
Valerie Werle: Okay.
Valerie Werle: So at
Valerie Werle: right now, living in Sprint and Pennsylvania, I do not feel my pay is where it should be.
Valerie Werle: And the reason I say that is, when we used to live near
Valerie Werle: Baltimore, Maryland.
Valerie Werle: on
Valerie Werle: I made
Valerie Werle: close to maybe
Valerie Werle: 35, $40 an hour.
Valerie Werle: Depending on what shift I was working on.
Valerie Werle: and I,
Valerie Werle: Baltimore.
Valerie Werle: approximately
Valerie Werle: 15 years ago.
Valerie Werle: and I am just now
Valerie Werle: hitting that pay in Scranton.
Valerie Werle: It's taken me 15 years.
Valerie Werle: What I made when I left Baltimore, because the pay up here is so crappy
Valerie Werle: on.
Valerie Werle: That's why
Valerie Werle: I'm working a lot of us are working to fight that to get our pay where it needs to be.
Valerie Werle: So.
TELEPHONE_USER: Do you think that's something that is widespread through the
TELEPHONE_USER: through radiology? Or is that more of something
TELEPHONE_USER: geographic.
Valerie Werle: It's geographical when you live near the bigger cities, like Philly, Baltimore, Pittsburgh.
Valerie Werle: New York City.
Valerie Werle: the bigger cities you, you make more money, and that's usually because there's more hospitals and clinics.
Valerie Werle: So the turnover rate is very high, like, if if you don't like what you make, you don't like your job. You just switch and go somewhere else, and then they'll pay you more.
Valerie Werle: Get you there?
Valerie Werle: Then the other hospital has to update
Valerie Werle: to pull people to there, so that kind of keeps the rates up higher. But when you live in like a rural area like we do
Valerie Werle: there's not a turnover, you know, like most.
TELEPHONE_USER: Writer.
Valerie Werle: Work with have worked there 20 plus years.
Valerie Werle: a. Or the younger people only stay for a few years and then leave. But the people that stay forever, and there's just no turnover. So they haven't had to up to pay, because
Valerie Werle: nobody's going anywhere.
Valerie Werle: you know.
Valerie Werle: So.
TELEPHONE_USER: Do you also get benefits.
Valerie Werle: I do get benefits.
Valerie Werle: I'm only a part time worker.
Valerie Werle: but I work pretty much full time hours.
Valerie Werle: I
Valerie Werle: I could I they do give me benefits where I could buy into the health insurance if I wanted to, at a higher rate, because I'm part time
Valerie Werle: but because your Dad has such good health insurance because he's a teacher. We use his health insurance.
TELEPHONE_USER: But okay.
Valerie Werle: Guys singer also offers vision dental.
Valerie Werle: I have a 401 K that I can contribute to that. They they will match
Valerie Werle: 6% up to 6% of what I put in there.
Valerie Werle: So that's good.
Valerie Werle: I get some paid time off. We don't get sick days, which is what's
Valerie Werle: kind of ridiculous.
Valerie Werle: But they give us personal day, personal time off days they call.
TELEPHONE_USER: But back.
Valerie Werle: And vacation time. I earn that
Valerie Werle: I get so much time for every hour I work.
TELEPHONE_USER: Okay.
TELEPHONE_USER: alright, a bit of a pivot. Now,
TELEPHONE_USER: go to S.
TELEPHONE_USER: How does your job affect your relationship with people around you, especially the closest people. Maybe you could choose one person to describe that.
Valerie Werle: And Kay
Valerie Werle: Well, I can pick Jeff right now.
Valerie Werle: I
Valerie Werle: so my job affects your brother.
Valerie Werle: because.
Valerie Werle: for example, right now we're very short staffed. So this week I had
Valerie Werle: I don't even know how many extra hours over time.
Valerie Werle: 16, maybe over time. So I worked like
Valerie Werle: I don't even know I I work a lot, so I haven't hardly seen your brother all week.
Valerie Werle: so he's kind of himself. He's having to make himself dinner.
Valerie Werle: drive himself to all his games. I missed his games.
Valerie Werle: His volleyball games.
Valerie Werle: It affected him also because he had it ingrown. I just
Valerie Werle: I don't know if you want to know this or not for your for this interview. But he had the ingrant toenail
Valerie Werle: that was bad.
Valerie Werle: probably like a week and a half ago, and today was the first time I was off in order to take him to the doctor, so that, like affects him and the whole family
Valerie Werle: when I work so much
Valerie Werle: so
Valerie Werle: it it can make things difficult, you know. And and
Valerie Werle: My family time is very important to me.
Valerie Werle: So
Valerie Werle: That's why I tried to work part time.
Valerie Werle: so it doesn't affect the family.
TELEPHONE_USER: Let's see.
TELEPHONE_USER: would you consider that this job is your career?
TELEPHONE_USER: And secondly, maybe you can. Or maybe you can start by telling me what a career is to you.
TELEPHONE_USER: Okay.
Valerie Werle: Yeah. So to me, a career is something that you.
Valerie Werle: a job that you go into, that you are in for the long haul.
Valerie Werle: something that you fall into, that you enjoy.
Valerie Werle: that you're going to advance yourself in
Valerie Werle: you're gonna climb the ladder a little bit.
Valerie Werle: It's something, you know, like you, you
Valerie Werle: you do it for a long time, but you'd like it, too, and it's it's what you wanted to do.
Valerie Werle: So for me. I feel it is a career like I I started off out of X-ray school.
Valerie Werle: you know, right out of college started doing X-rays.
Valerie Werle: Then I advanced myself by learning Caspian.
Valerie Werle: I sat for my boards for that.
Valerie Werle: I worked a lot while, you guys.
Valerie Werle: we're little. And then I stayed a little bit, but then it came back into it. And now that you guys are getting older, I'm working more
Valerie Werle: on.
Valerie Werle: And
Valerie Werle: I also noticed, you know, that I've been in this field longer. Now
Valerie Werle: I feel comfortable.
Valerie Werle: training new people and
Valerie Werle: speaking up in my job where I didn't used to do that.
Valerie Werle: No, it used to be, I would just come
Valerie Werle: or could go home, but now I feel more invested in it.
Valerie Werle: So right
Valerie Werle: good.
Valerie Werle: I mean.
TELEPHONE_USER: Well, we can move on to our final question. Which is.
TELEPHONE_USER: have you ever felt threatened by losing your job from anything, from layoffs to competition.
TELEPHONE_USER: Done.
TELEPHONE_USER: Yeah?
Valerie Werle: I really haven't felt threatened in my job very often.
Valerie Werle: What I do it. We're always needed.
Valerie Werle: It's very rare that
Valerie Werle: we are over staffed.
Valerie Werle: we're always understaffed. So that's never been an issue.
Valerie Werle: W. One thing, when I early on in my career, I used to get really nervous that I would lose my job.
Valerie Werle: but that was because I was not confident in what I was doing, and I was afraid of
Valerie Werle: being up to the
Valerie Werle: fired
Valerie Werle: Nowadays I know better, you know I'm more confident, and I also have learned, like
Valerie Werle: not what I could get away with. That's not the right word. But
Valerie Werle: you know, if you make
Valerie Werle: work, it's just a mistake, and you move on, you learn from it, and you move on.
Valerie Werle: whereas before I would just like.
Valerie Werle: Oh, my God, I made a mistake. The the radiologist is gonna yell at me. You know. I'm gonna get fired, you know. I
Valerie Werle: I would get really, really, really upset about it.
Valerie Werle: And now I just I don't.
TELEPHONE_USER: Okay.
TELEPHONE_USER: well, that's great.
Valerie Werle: It's.
TELEPHONE_USER: Yeah.
TELEPHONE_USER: all right. Well, that wraps up our interview.
TELEPHONE_USER: thank you very much for answering all those questions definitely learned a lot.
TELEPHONE_USER: And alright. Let's wrap it up.
Valerie Werle: Okay.